México

RECETA 1 - Pozole

Historia breve del Pozole

https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pozole

Receta - https://www.thespruceeats.com/chicken-pozole-white-red-green-4140696

Ingredients
1 large onion (cut in half)
1 1/2 pounds boneless chicken breast and/or thighs
12 cups good quality chicken broth
2 cloves garlic (finely diced)
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin
1 1/4 pounds prepared (cooked) hominy
2 teaspoons salt
Optional: 1/2 teaspoon dried epazote
Garnish: 3/4 pound white cabbage (or purple cabbage)
Garnish: 6 medium-sized radishes
Garnish: 6 to 8 Mexican limes
Garnish: 1/4 cup dried oregano
Garnish: 2 tablespoons powdered chili pepper (or crushed dried chile pepper, such as piquín or ancho chile)

Steps to Make It

1. Gather the ingredients.

2. Cut one half of the onion into 3 parts.

3. In a large soup pot, place the cut up onion and the chicken into the broth and boil gently for about 30 minutes, until the chicken is cooked through.

4. Skim off and discard any foam that rises to the top of the cooking liquid.

5. Remove the chicken and allow it to cool enough to handle safely. Remove the pieces of onion from the broth and discard them. Shred or chop the chicken into pieces that can fit onto a soup spoon. Discard any bones, fat, or cartilage.

6. Return chicken to the broth and add garlic and cumin.

7. Empty the prepared hominy into a strainer. Rinse it under running water, then drain.

8. Add the hominy, salt, and epazote (if using) to the broth. (Although epazote is optional, use it if you can, as it adds a wonderful rustic note to the soup.)

9. Allow the broth to boil gently for 20 to 30 minutes so that the flavors can meld.

10. To prepare the garnishes, cut the cabbage into chunks that are no bigger than 2 or 3 inches long on each side. Shred each chunk with a grater or cut with a sharp knife into thin slices. “Fluff” the shredded cabbage with your fingers so that the slices separate from one another. Place the cabbage into a serving bowl.

11. Cut the stem and tail off of each radish. Cut radishes into halves or quarters, then thinly slice each piece.

12. Dice the other half of the onion. Cut limes into halves or quarters.

13. Place the sliced radishes, diced onion, and cut limes on a serving plate or in a bowl.

14. Place the dried oregano and powdered chile pepper into a small serving dish—either together side-by-side in a shallow bowl, or in separate small condiment dishes.

15. Before serving your pozole, taste it and add more salt, if necessary. Hominy dishes often need more salt than you would think.

16. Serve the pozole very hot in deep bowls; remember, room temperature garnishes will be added, which will significantly cool the soup.




RECETA 2 - CHILAQUILES

History of recipe - https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chilaquiles

Recipe - https://www.thespruceeats.com/basic-chilaquiles-recipe-2342627

Ingredients
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
2 to 3 cups tortilla chips (approximately 30 chips from a bag)
1 1/4 cups green salsa (or red salsa)
1/2 cup queso fresco  cheese (or cotija, crumbled)
2 tablespoons Mexican crema (or substitute regular sour cream thinned with a splash of milk)

Steps to Make It
1. Gather the ingredients.

2. Lightly coat a large frying pan with the vegetable oil; heat it over medium-high heat until the oil shimmers.

3. Spread the tortilla chips in the pan.

4. Quickly pour the salsa over the chips and reduce the heat to medium-low. Simmer the chips in the sauce, undisturbed, until the chips absorb some of the liquid and soften, for approximately 10 minutes.

5. Divide the chilaquiles between two plates; sprinkle half of the cheese on each and drizzle with half of the crema.

6. Serve and enjoy!
